A 47-year-old male with a past medical history notable for hypertension on metoprolol succinate, morbid obesity, and pre-diabetes presented to the emergency department (ED) with a chief complaint of generalized weakness. The patient tested positive for COVID-19 and exhibited mild unspecified respiratory symptoms. He was subsequently discharged home to recover in isolation per the CDCs COVID-19 response protocols. One week later, the patient returned to the ED for ongoing symptoms and was admitted requiring supplemental oxygen for hypoxia. Upon admission to the hospital, the patient was noted to have difficulty standing and ambulating. Two days into his inpatient stay, the patient developed urinary retention issues requiring intermittent catheterization. Three days later, he developed facial weakness and numbness. The clinical diagnosis of GBS was suspected and subsequent EDX studies reported AIDP. The patient was treated with a five-day course of intravenous immune globulin (IVIG). Three days after the completion of his IVIG treatment, the patient noted improvement with right upper extremity anti-gravity strength.
The patient was transferred to inpatient rehabilitation with significant proximal lower extremity weakness. The bilateral upper extremities demonstrated slight weakness. The bilateral lower extremities demonstrated a significant loss of strength, 1/5 dorsiflexion, and 3/5 plantar flexion bilaterally. The patient also reported diminished sensation to light touch in bilateral upper extremities in all dermatomes. His blood pressure upon rehabilitation admission was 110/73 mmHg.
Prior to hospitalization, the patient was independent with mobility and all activities of daily living. Upon evaluation in the inpatient rehabilitation, the patient was at a significant functional decline from baseline, requiring dependent assistance with toileting hygiene, showering, upper body dressing, lower body dressing, footwear management, rolling left and right, and all transfers. The patient was unable to ambulate due to his level of impairment. In inpatient rehabilitation, the patient completed three hours total of physical, occupational, and speech therapy per day five days a week with