A 24-year-old healthy woman presented with difficulty breathing and dissatisfaction with her facial appearance. She had a history of childhood trauma resulting in nasal septum deviation and external nasal deformity. Four months after a successful and uneventful septorhinoplasty, she presented to the emergency department with blunt nasal trauma resulting in a septal hematoma, which was drained successfully; the patient was discharged with no adverse sequelae.
Four months later, the patient sustained nasal trauma again, this time accompanied by clear nasal discharge, raising suspicion of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak. The patient was discharged after managing the nasal injury, as the CT brain showed an intact cribriform plate with no evidence of a CSF leak. Ten days later, she presented at the emergency department with dizziness and an unstable gait. She also had complaints of paresthesia for the past two months, beginning in her right hand and progressing to the right shoulder, arm and leg, associated with some difficulty in the execution of movements in the first and second finger of the right hand. Her right leg was quite stiff with difficulty in walking. On close inquiry, she gave history of pain in the right eye and double vision many months back, which had resolved spontaneously. Examination showed a positive Romberg’s and Lhermitte’s sign, with right-sided sensory impairment.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, cervical and thoracic spine demonstrated demyelinating lesions in the brain and cervical segment of the spinal cord (Figure ). Some of the lesions demonstrated enhancement on post gadolinium administration sequences, suggestive of active demyelinating diseases like MS. A lumbar puncture was performed which demonstrated the presence of oligoclonal bands in the CSF. The diagnosis of MS was confirmed by a neurologist and treatment was initiated.
The initial neurological symptoms have largely vanished with only persistent light paresthesia in the right hand. Two years later she has had no new symptoms and continues with the same medication with good tolerance.