A 44-year-old female with a history of asthma, essential hypertension, class 3 obesity, depression, and poor social and economic background was intermittently followed during the previous four years for persistent cutaneous candidiasis with intertrigo in the inframammary, inguinal, and lower abdominal regions (Figure ).
She had been treated with topical antifungal, oral fluconazole and oral itraconazole with no improvement, which was believed to be because of poor hygiene and questionable therapeutic compliance. A worsening in the skin rash with exudate, pruritus, and a change to a violaceous colour, with scaly papules and vesicles (Figures , ) led to the performance of a skin biopsy which revealed (Figure ) orthokeratotic hyperkeratosis in the epidermis with areas of parakeratosis and, in the papillary dermis, there was an infiltrate of cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and reniform nuclei that showed positive CD1a and S100 proteins on the immunohistochemistry and negative CD163 (Figure ).
The patient denied constitutional, musculoskeletal, neurological, or urinary complaints. She underwent a complete blood count, complete metabolic panel, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), thoracic-abdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT), and bone scintigraphy. Brain MRI depicted mild chronic microvascular changes in the white matter, unchanged from a prior study. CT demonstrated a thickening of the renal pelvis (4 mm) in the right kidney with a slight urothelial dilation (Figure ). The rest of the exams did not reveal further organ involvement.
After considering the skin histology, the extensive cutaneous involvement, and the infiltrative urothelial involvement, it was evident this was a multi-system process. A consultation with Hematology/Oncology, led to induction treatment with prednisolone and vinblastine-based chemotherapy. At six weeks of chemotherapy, there was a partial regression of the skin lesions (Figure ) and a resolution of the urothelium lesion in imaging exam (CT).
The disease was in