Doctor: Good morning, how are you feeling today?

Patient: Good morning, I'm feeling okay.

Doctor: That's great to hear. Can you tell me about your medical history?

Patient: Hmm, yes. I have a history of asthma, essential hypertension, and obesity.

Doctor: I see. And have you been experiencing any skin problems lately?

Patient: Yes, I have been struggling with persistent cutaneous candidiasis and intertrigo in the inframammary, inguinal, and lower abdominal regions.

Doctor: I understand. Have you been treated for this before?

Patient: Yes, I have been treated with topical antifungal, fluconazole, and itraconazole, but there has been no improvement.

Doctor: I see. Do you think that could be due to poor hygiene or therapeutic compliance?

Patient: Yes, that's what the doctors have been saying.

Doctor: Okay, I see. And have you noticed any worsening in the skin rash lately?

Patient: Yes, there has been a worsening with exudate, pruritus, and a change to a violaceous color, with scaly papules and vesicles.

Doctor: I see. And have you undergone a skin biopsy for this?

Patient: Yes, I have.

Doctor: And what did the results show?

Patient: The results showed orthokeratotic hyperkeratosis in the epidermis with areas of parakeratosis and in the papillary dermis, there was an infiltrate of cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and reniform nuclei that showed positive CD1a and S100 proteins on the immunohistochemistry and negative CD163.

Doctor: I see. And have you noticed any constitutional, musculoskeletal, neurological, or urinary complaints?

Patient: No, I haven't.

Doctor: Okay. I see that you have undergone a complete blood count, complete metabolic panel, brain magnetic resonance imaging, thoracic-abdominal-pelvic computed tomography, and bone scintigraphy.

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: And what did the results show?

Patient: The brain MRI showed mild chronic microvascular changes in the white matter, unchanged from a prior study. The CT demonstrated a thickening of the renal pelvis (4 mm) in the right kidney with a slight urothelial dilation. The rest of the exams did not reveal further organ involvement.

Doctor: I see. After considering the skin histology, the extensive cutaneous involvement, and the infiltrative urothelial involvement, it was evident this was a multi-system process. And you underwent a consultation with Hematology/Oncology, correct?

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: And you underwent induction treatment with prednisolone and vinblastine-based chemotherapy, correct?

Patient: Yes, I did.

Doctor: And at six weeks of chemotherapy, there was a partial regression of the skin lesions and a resolution of the urothelium lesion in the imaging exam, correct?

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: That's great to hear. I would like to continue to monitor your condition and would like you to come back for a follow-up in six weeks.

Patient: Okay, I will.