Doctor: Good morning, sir. I understand you presented to the emergency department via emergency medical services. Can you tell me what happened?

Patient: Yes, I woke up from my sleep just prior to arrival with sudden onset shortness of breath.

Doctor: I see. And you reported three days of non-radiating lumbar back pain and two episodes of non-bloody emesis leading up to this event. Is that correct?

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: Alright. And can you tell me about your medical history?

Patient: Sure, I have hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Doctor: Okay. And what medications are you currently taking?

Patient: I'm taking metformin, amlodipine, losartan, and atenolol.

Doctor: Alright. Let me check your vital signs. Your heart rate is 75, respiratory rate is 29, blood pressure is 119/62, and oxygen saturation is 99% on 2L nasal cannula. Your temperature is 36.3°C.

Patient: Hmm, okay.

Doctor: During the physical examination, you appeared ill and anxious, and you were tachypneic. You also had significant work of breathing with retractions and abdominal breathing. Your lungs were clear to auscultation, with no wheezing, rhonchi, or rales. Is that correct?

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: Alright. And during the abdominal exam, there was mild epigastric tenderness with no rebound, guarding, or palpable pulsatile mass. And there was no costovertebral angle tenderness or midline tenderness elicited. Is that correct?

Patient: Yes, that's right.

Doctor: Alright. And during the neurological exam, there were no focal deficits.

Patient: Yes, that's correct.

Doctor: Due to your presentation and multiple comorbidities, we have significant concern for the possible acute coronary syndrome, dissection, sepsis, or pulmonary embolism. That's why we ordered some blood work including complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic panel, lactic acid, troponin, and urine analysis. And we also ordered a CT-angiogram of your chest, abdomen, and pelvis.

Patient: Okay, I understand.

Doctor: The complete blood count revealed a white blood cell count of 20.4 x 103/uL, hemoglobin of 11.2 g/dL, and platelet count of 376 x 103/uL. The comprehensive metabolic panel was significant for a sodium of 145 mmol/L, potassium 6.1 mmol/L, chloride 100 mmol/l, bicarbonate <7 mmol, and blood urea nitrogen 67.

Patient: Hmm, okay.

Doctor: Based on these results, I would like to admit you for further evaluation and treatment. I will keep you informed of any updates.

Patient: Alright.

Doctor: And I would like to see you again in a week for a follow-up appointment.

Patient: Okay, I'll be there.