A 90-year-old male was found in his home slumped to his right side and unable to be awakened. Paramedics calculated an 8/15 Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score, which remained the same on admission. On presentation to the hospital, the patient had left facial droop, bilateral pinpoint pupils, and right-sided weakness. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score on admission was 26, suggesting a severe stroke. All other observations on admission were non-revealing, including vital signs, biochemical tests, and systems review.
The patient’s neurological medical history included two previous transient ischemic attacks and suspected dementia. Other past medical history included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, stage 3 chronic kidney disease, adult polycystic kidney disease, hypercholesterolemia, and aortic valve sclerosis. He was an ex-smoker of unknown pack-years and prior to admission was living independently.
Initial head CT performed only showed chronic small vessel disease with periventricular leukoaraiosis, consistent with his age. Thrombolysis was initiated with an intravenous tissue-plasminogen activator, however, the patient’s GCS declined to 6/15 approximately 40 minutes after the start of thrombolysis. A repeat head CT was performed, again showing no acute findings. To prevent further deterioration, a decision to monitor the patient’s condition conservatively was made.
Over the next few days, the patient remained very somnolent. When the patient was able to awaken, he was only capable of responding to simple commands. Speech and language therapists noted that fatigue was limiting conversations, with the patient speaking with imprecise articulation and at a low volume. Occupational therapists concurred that the patient was poorly engaged during sessions, while physiotherapists classified this patient as having limited rehabilitation potential.
Stroke was finally confirmed upon a third head CT several days after admission, which showed