A 67-year-old Caucasian female presented to our hospital with a chief complaint of persistent bright red blood per rectum. Her medical history was significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus type 2, coronary artery disease with three prior myocardial infarctions, recurrent cerebrovascular accidents requiring anticoagulation with warfarin, gastroesophageal reflux disease, asthma, and endometrial cancer status post radiation therapy. Fifteen months prior to the current presentation, the patient was noted to have a grade 1 endometrial adenoma but was not considered a good surgical candidate due to multiple comorbidities. Vaginal hysterectomy was considered but due to her long and narrow vagina, this option was deferred initially. Her only treatment option was radiation therapy and brachytherapy. She eventually underwent total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oopherectomy due to continued pelvic pain. The patient denied any prior history of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. Her bleeding was described as one large episode of bright red blood per rectum associated with blood clots. She denied any abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or melena. The most recent colonoscopy was performed four months ago and revealed three diminutive polyps in the transverse colon with pathology confirming tubular adenoma.
Her physical examination was significant for mild left-sided abdominal tenderness but was otherwise unremarkable. Rectal examination was notable for nonbleeding hemorrhoids and no visible blood. Blood work revealed white blood cells of 14.3k/uL (normal range 4.3-10.0 k/uL) and hemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL (normal range 11.8-14.8 g/dL), which is similar to the patient’s baseline. Creatinine was slightly elevated to 1.2 and blood urea nitrogen was elevated to 39. International normalized ratio was 2.0. Due the large volume of hematochezia and presence of anemia, the patient was admitted to the hospital and underwent a colonoscopy, which revealed a large, fungating, friable, and ulcerated nonob