Tocilizumab injection comes as a solution (liquid) to be injected intravenously (into a vein) in your arm by a doctor or nurse in a medical office or hospital outpatient clinic or as a prefilled syringe to inject subcutaneously (under the skin) by yourself at home. When tocilizumab is given intravenously to treat rheumatoid arthritis or polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, it is usually given once every 4 weeks. When tocilizumab is given intravenously to treat systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, it is usually given once every 2 weeks. When tocilizumab is given intravenously to treat cytokine release syndrome, it is usually given once, but up to 3 additional doses may be given at least 8 hours apart. It will take about 1 hour for you to receive your dose of tocilizumab injection intravenously. When tocilizumab is given subcutaneously to treat rheumatoid arthritis or giant cell arteritis, it is usually given once weekly or once every other week.

You will receive your first subcutaneous dose of tocilizumab injection in your doctor's office. If you will be injecting tocilizumab injection subcutaneously by yourself at home or having a friend or relative inject the medication for you, your doctor will show you or the person who will be injecting the medication how to inject it. You and the person who will be injecting the medication should also read the written instructions for use that come with the medication.

Thirty minutes before you are ready to inject tocilizumab injection, you will need to remove the medication from the refrigerator, take it out of its carton, and allow it to reach room temperature. When removing a prefilled syringe from the box, be careful not to touch the trigger fingers on the syringe. Do not try to warm the medication by heating it in a microwave, placing it in warm water, or through any other method.

Do not remove the cap from the prefilled syringe while the medication is warming. You should remove the cap no more than 5 minutes before you inject the medication. Do not replace the cap after you remove it. Do not use the syringe if you drop it on the floor.

Check the prefilled syringe to be sure that the expiration date printed on the package has not passed, Holding the syringe with the covered needle pointing down, look closely at the liquid in the syringe. The liquid should be clear or pale yellow and should not be cloudy or discolored or contain lumps or particles. Call your pharmacist if there are any problems with the package or the syringe and do not inject the medication.

You may inject tocilizumab injection on the front of the thighs or anywhere on your stomach except your navel (belly button) and the area 2 inches around it. If another person is injecting your medication, the outer area of the upper arms also may be used. Do not inject the medication into skin that is tender, bruised, red, hard, or not intact, or that has scars, moles, or bruises. Choose a different spot each time you inject the medication, at least 1 inch away from a spot that you have used before. If the full dose is not injected, call your doctor or pharmacist.

Do not reuse tocilizumab prefilled syringes and do not recap the syringes after use. Discard any used syringes in a puncture-resistant container and ask your pharmacist how to throw away the container.
