A 14-year-old male adolescent presented to the emergency department with subfebrile temperatures for 1 week and localized pain in his right popliteal fossa for 3 days. Prior to the onset of these symptoms, he had been immobilized for several days following a minor sports injury.
The adolescent had no permanent medication and no prior medical history except for an asymptomatic ATD diagnosed at the age of six by functional antithrombin assay (antithrombin activity of 57%, age adapted reference: 77–125%). Since at that time, there were no clinical signs of thrombosis, the diagnosis of ATD did not lead to any therapeutic consequences. Screening for ATD at this early age had been carried out on parental request, as his mother was diagnosed with ATD in her early adulthood. Interestingly, his mother now reported that she had very recently been diagnosed with IVCA (preexisting chromogenic test results showed an antithrombin activity of 50% for the mother, the age adjusted reference range being 80 to 130%).
The coexistence of other hereditary thrombophilic disorders in our patient and his mother (protein S deficiency, protein C deficiency, factor V Leiden mutation, prothrombin-mutation, antiphospholipid syndrome) was ruled out by respective laboratory analyses.
Laboratory blood analysis in the emergency department showed markedly elevated D-dimers of 25 mg/l FEU (reference: < 0.5 mg/l FEU) and of C-reactive protein (CrP) of 184 mg/l (reference < 5 mg/l). Antithrombin activity on admission was reduced to 61% (age adjusted reference 83–118%).
A vascular ultrasound examination upon admission confirmed the clinically suspected thrombosis of the right lower extremity involving the external iliac, common and superficial femoral as well as the popliteal vein. The ultrasound examination of the left lower extremity veins did not give evidence of thromboses upon admission. The patient was treated with continuous infusion of unfractionated heparin at a therapeutical dose including several bolus administrations and antithrombin (4000 IE