Our patient is a 78-year-old male with a past medical history of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma/mycosis fungoides (on regular outpatient extracorporeal photopheresis), type II diabetes mellitus, atrial flutter on Xarelto, and sick sinus syndrome on dual-chamber pacemaker, presented to the hospital with right upper quadrant abdominal pain. The patient was a former smoker and denied any alcohol use.
In the emergency department, he was hemodynamically stable. Laboratory workup was significant for abnormally elevated liver function tests including aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT) of 204/188 U/L, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) of 550 U/L, and total bilirubin of 2.5 mg/dL. Ultrasound of the abdomen was negative for any focal liver or gallbladder lesions. There was no evidence of intrahepatic or extrahepatic biliary duct dilation. Hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan was normal, and hence cholecystitis was ruled out. CT abdomen and pelvis and CT angiography of the chest were negative for acute pathology. As the patient had a pacemaker, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) could not be performed. Further laboratory evaluation for elevated liver enzymes, including viral hepatitis panel, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), iron panel, antinuclear antibody (ANA), anti-mitochondrial antibody, alpha-1-antitrypsin antibody, anti-smooth muscle antibody, and ceruloplasmin was negative.
Given that the patient has a history of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the important differential diagnosis included leukemic infiltration of the liver and adverse reaction to the prior chemotherapy. However, the patient received only a short course of the chemotherapeutic regimen mogamulizumab (due to insurance issues), and hence it was unlikely to cause this current clinical picture. Subsequently, a percutaneous liver biopsy was performed to confirm the diagnosis, which showed replacement of the normal liver parenchymal cells by high-grade tumor cells with a high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio (Figures -