Doctor: Good morning, what brings you to the hospital today?

Patient: I have been experiencing right upper quadrant abdominal pain.

Doctor: I see. Can you tell me more about your past medical history?

Patient: I have cutaneous T-cell lymphoma/mycosis fungoides, and I'm on regular outpatient extracorporeal photopheresis. I also have type II diabetes mellitus, atrial flutter on Xarelto, and sick sinus syndrome on a dual-chamber pacemaker.

Doctor: Hmm, thank you for the information. Have you been experiencing any other symptoms besides abdominal pain?

Patient: No, just the pain.

Doctor: Alright. And, are you a former smoker?

Patient: Yes, I used to smoke.

Doctor: And, do you drink alcohol?

Patient: No, I don't.

Doctor: Okay. When you came to the emergency department, were you hemodynamically stable?

Patient: Yes, I was.

Doctor: That's good to hear. Now, let's talk about your laboratory workup. Your liver function tests were abnormally elevated, including aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase of 204/188 U/L, alkaline phosphatase of 550 U/L, and total bilirubin of 2.5 mg/dL.

Patient: Hmm.

Doctor: We also did an ultrasound of your abdomen, but it was negative for any focal liver or gallbladder lesions. There was no evidence of intrahepatic or extrahepatic biliary duct dilation.

Patient: Okay.

Doctor: We also did a HIDA scan, which was normal, and hence we ruled out cholecystitis.

Patient: Alright.

Doctor: And, we did a CT abdomen and pelvis and CT angiography of the chest, but they were negative for acute pathology.

Patient: Okay.

Doctor: Unfortunately, because you have a pacemaker, we couldn't perform an MRCP.

Patient: I see.

Doctor: We also did further laboratory evaluation for elevated liver enzymes, including a viral hepatitis panel, thyroid-stimulating hormone, iron panel, antinuclear antibody, anti-mitochondrial antibody, alpha-1-antitrypsin antibody, anti-smooth muscle antibody, and ceruloplasmin, but they were negative.

Patient: Hmm.

Doctor: Given that you have a history of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the important differential diagnosis included leukemic infiltration of the liver and adverse reaction to prior chemotherapy.

Patient: Yes, I understand.

Doctor: However, you only received a short course of the chemotherapeutic regimen mogamulizumab due to insurance issues, so it's unlikely to cause this current clinical picture.

Patient: Okay.

Doctor: Subsequently, we performed a percutaneous liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis, which showed replacement of the normal liver parenchymal cells by high-grade tumor cells with a high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio.

Patient: I see.

Doctor: I'm sorry to inform you that you have liver cancer.

[Patient's family enters the room]

Doctor: I'm so sorry for your loss.

Patient's Family: Thank you, doctor.